0.42 Release Notes: Qualtran + Clifford-T Decomposition (#7829)
PennyLaneAI/pennylane: doc/releases/changelog-0.42.0.md

    ```

  * Use smart default mapping of PennyLane circuits and operations to Qualtran Bloqs by setting `map_ops=True` or leaving the default value:
    ```pycon
    >>> PL_op = qml.X(0)
    >>> qualtran_op = qml.to_bloq(PL_op)
    >>> type(qualtran_op)
    qualtran.bloqs.basic_gates.x_basis.XGate
    ```
  * Use custom user-defined mapping of PennyLane circuits and operations to Qualtran Bloqs by setting a `custom_mapping` dictionary:
    ```pycon
    >>> def circuit():
    ...    qml.QubitUnitary([[0, 1],[1, 0]], wires=0)
    ...    qml.QubitUnitary([[0, 1],[1, 0]], wires=0)
    ...    qml.QubitUnitary([[0, 1],[1, 0]], wires=0)

    >>> PL_op = qml.QubitUnitary([[0, 1],[1, 0]], wires=0)

    >>> from qualtran.bloqs.basic_gates import XGate
    >>> qualtran_op = XGate()

    >>> custom_map = {PL_op: qualtran_op}

    >>> bloq = qml.to_bloq(circuit, custom_mapping=custom_map)
    >>> bloq.bloq_counts()
    {XGate(): 3}
    ```

<h4>Resource-efficient Clifford-T decompositions 🍃</h4>

* The [Ross-Selinger algorithm](https://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2975),
  also known as Gridsynth, can now be accessed in :func:`~.clifford_t_decomposition` by setting

>   `method="gridsynth"`. This is a new Clifford-T decomposition method that can produce

Reviewer: "new" or "newer"/"more recent"?
```suggestion
  `method="gridsynth"`. This is a newer Clifford-T decomposition method that can produce
```

  [(#7588)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/7588)
  [(#7641)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/7641)
  [(#7611)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/7611)
  [(#7711)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/7711)
  [(#7770)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/7770)
  [(#7791)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/7791)

  In the following example, decomposing with `method="gridsynth"` instead of `method="sk"` gives a
  significant reduction in overall gate counts, specifically the `qml.T` count:

  ```python
  @qml.qnode(qml.device("lightning.qubit", wires=2))
  def circuit():

      qml.RX(0.12, 0)
      qml.CNOT([0, 1])
      qml.RY(0.34, 0)

      return qml.expval(qml.Z(0))

  gridsynth_circuit = qml.clifford_t_decomposition(circuit, method="gridsynth")
  sk_circuit = qml.clifford_t_decomposition(circuit, method="sk")

  gridsynth_specs = qml.specs(rs_circuit)()["resources"]
  sk_specs = qml.specs(sk_circuit)()["resources"]
  ```

  ```pycon
  >>> print(gridsynth_specs.num_gates, sk_specs.num_gates)
  239 47942
  >>> print(gridsynth_specs.gate_types['T'], sk_specs.gate_types['T'])
  90 8044
  ```

> * This release also improves the speed of the `qml.clifford_t_decomposition` transform by
>   introducing caching support and changing the
>   default basis set of `qml.ops.sk_decomposition` to `(H, S, T)`, resulting in shorter decomposition sequences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* This release also improves the speed of the `qml.clifford_t_decomposition` transform by
  implementing caching and changing the default basis set of `qml.ops.sk_decomposition`
  to `(H, S, T)`, resulting in shorter decomposition sequences.
```

> <h4>Qualtran integration 🔗</h4>

Reviewer 2: I'm a bit confused why there's two separate sections that demonstrate how to use `to_bloq` 🤔. I really like the first three bullet points (wrap PL circuits..., use smart default mapping..., custom user-defined mapping...), but we go back to explaining the function arguments and then there are more examples. I think all of the examples shown are nice, but maybe the ordering is a bit jumbled?

Author: Ah, forgot to delete one :facepalm:

  abstractions and tools. 
  [(#7197)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/7197)
  [(#7604)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/7604)
  [(#7536)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/7536)

  
  :func:`qml.to_bloq <pennylane.to_bloq>` translates PennyLane circuits into equivalent
  [Qualtran bloqs](https://qualtran.readthedocs.io/en/latest/bloqs/index.html#bloqs-library).
  This function can be used in the following ways:
  * Wrap PennyLane circuits and operations to give them Qualtran features like obtaining 
    [bloq_counts](https://qualtran.readthedocs.io/en/latest/reference/qualtran/Bloq.html#:~:text=bloq_counts) and
    drawing a [call_graph](https://qualtran.readthedocs.io/en/latest/drawing/drawing_call_graph.html):
  
  ```pycon
  >>> def circuit():
  ...    qml.X(0)
  ...    qml.Y(1)
  ...    qml.Z(2)

  >>> cbloq = qml.to_bloq(circuit)
  >>> type(cbloq)
  pennylane.io.qualtran_io.ToBloq
  >>> cbloq.bloq_counts()
  {XGate(): 1, ZGate(): 1, YGate(): 1}
  ```

  * Use smart default mapping of PennyLane circuits and operations to Qualtran Bloqs:
  ```pycon

>   >>> import pennylane as qml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

  >>> PL_op = qml.X(0)
  >>> qualtran_op = qml.to_bloq(PL_op)
  >>> type(qualtran_op)
  qualtran.bloqs.basic_gates.x_basis.XGate

>   ```

Reviewer 2: Needs to be tabbed over one more

>   * Custom user-defined mapping of PennyLane circuits and operations to Qualtran Bloqs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Custom user-defined mapping of PennyLane circuits and operations to Qualtran Bloqs:
```

  ```pycon
  >>> def circuit():

>   ...    qml.QubitUnitary([[0,1],[1,0]], wires=0)
>   ...    qml.QubitUnitary([[0,1],[1,0]], wires=0)
>   ...    qml.QubitUnitary([[0,1],[1,0]], wires=0)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  ...    qml.QubitUnitary([[0, 1],[1, 0]], wires=0)
  ...    qml.QubitUnitary([[0, 1],[1, 0]], wires=0)
  ...    qml.QubitUnitary([[0, 1],[1, 0]], wires=0)
```

>   >>> PL_op = qml.QubitUnitary([[0,1],[1,0]], wires=0)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  >>> PL_op = qml.QubitUnitary([[0, 1],[1, 0]], wires=0)
```

  >>> from qualtran.bloqs.basic_gates import XGate
  >>> qualtran_op = XGate()

>   >>> custom_map = {
>   ...  PL_op: qualtran_op}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  >>> custom_map = {PL_op: qualtran_op}
```

  >>> bloq = qml.to_bloq(circuit, custom_mapping=custom_map)
  >>> bloq.bloq_counts()
  {XGate(): 3}
  ```

>   It requires one input and takes in two optional inputs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  
  It requires one input and takes in two optional inputs:
```

  * ``circuit (QNode| Qfunc | Operation)``: a PennyLane ``QNode``, ``Qfunc``, or operator to be wrapped as a Qualtran Bloq.
  * ``map_ops (bool)``: Whether to map operations to a Qualtran Bloq. Operations are wrapped as a ``ToBloq`` when ``False``. Default is ``True``.

>   * custom_mapping (dict): Dictionary to specify a mapping between a PennyLane operator and a Qualtran Bloq. A default mapping is used if not defined.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * ``custom_mapping`` (dict): Dictionary to specify a mapping between a PennyLane operator and a Qualtran Bloq. A default mapping is used if not defined.
```

>   The following example converts a PennyLane Operator into a Qualtran Bloq:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

  The following example converts a PennyLane Operator into a Qualtran Bloq:
```

  ```python

>   import pennylane as qml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

      qml.Qubitization(H, control_wires), estimation_wires=estimation_wires

>   )

Reviewer 2: Missing to_bloq conversion I think 🤔

<h4>Resource-efficient Clifford-T decompositions 🍃</h4>

* The [Ross-Selinger algorithm](https://arxiv.org/abs/1403.2975),
  also known as Gridsynth, can now be accessed in :func:`~.clifford_t_decomposition` by setting
  `method="gridsynth"`. This is a new Clifford-T decomposition method that can produce

>   orders of magnitue fewer gates than the previous `method="sk"` (Solovay-Kitaev algorithm). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  orders of magnitue fewer gates than by using `method="sk"` (Solovay-Kitaev algorithm). 
```

  [(#7588)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/7588)
  [(#7641)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/7641)
  [(#7611)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/7611)
  [(#7711)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/7711)
  [(#7770)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/7770)
  [(#7791)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/7791)

  In the following example, decomposing with `method="gridsynth"` instead of `method="sk"` gives a
  significant reduction in overall gate counts, specifically the `qml.T` count:

  ```python
  @qml.qnode(qml.device("lightning.qubit", wires=2))
  def circuit():

      qml.RX(0.12, 0)
      qml.CNOT([0, 1])
      qml.RY(0.34, 0)

      return qml.expval(qml.Z(0))

  gridsynth_circuit = qml.clifford_t_decomposition(circuit, method="gridsynth")
  sk_circuit = qml.clifford_t_decomposition(circuit, method="sk")

  gridsynth_specs = qml.specs(rs_circuit)()["resources"]
  sk_specs = qml.specs(sk_circuit)()["resources"]
  ```

>   Printing the overall gate counts and T gate counts shows a two order of magnitude decrease when
>   using `method='gridsynth'` vs `method='sk'`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

  ```pycon
  >>> print(gridsynth_specs.num_gates, sk_specs.num_gates)
  239 47942
  >>> print(gridsynth_specs.gate_types['T'], sk_specs.gate_types['T'])

>   90 8044

Reviewer 2: 😮
